qlsync is a small GUI program for maintaining playlists and music
files on a portable device.  It uses Quodlibet to find playlists and
music files, but is otherwise independent.

Different transport protocols are supported to connect to your device.
So far only filesystem (i.e. mounted mass storage devive) and FTP are
provided.  MTP is not currently supported.

The program enables you to specify the parameters (transport
protocol, music location, etc) for various devices.  These are saved
in the file ~/.qlsync.  Note that any password you specify for ftp
connection will be stored in that file (in pickle format, so easily
readable).  For this reason, permissions on that file are set to 600.
A future version of this program may encrypt that file.  ;-)

The scan operation will scan both the Quodlibet library (for changed
playlists, etc), and your device.  A list of all playlists known to
Quodlibet is displayed, with those currently on the device ticked.

Simply tick/untick those playlists you do/don't want on your device,
and then hit sync.

qlsync will ignore any music files or playlists on your device which
aren't in the Quodlibet library.  It should delete files from your
device only in the following cases:

   1. You untick a playlist that was previously sync'd to the device.
      In this case the playlist and music it references will be
      deleted.  However, music files still referenced by another known
      playlist will be left on the device.

   2. You remove some music files from a playlist which is sync'd to
      the device.  In this case, the music files are deleted from the
      device, and the updated playlist file copied onto the device.

However, I strongly suggest you have backups for all music on your
device.  There are no guarantees in case something goes wrong.

Playlists are put in the subdirectory "Playlists" of the music folder
on the device.  Currently only M3U format playlists are supported.
Playlists are copied or deleted after all the music files.  This is
because if the operation is cancelled, qlsync forgets about files it
had already copied or deleted.  So if you restart the operation, it
will start over, but end up with everything copied or deleted.

So why does qlsync just look at playlists, rather than the actual
files on the device?  It's to support the two-stage process for
loading music onto iPods.  See README.iPod.

Comments and requests for improvement welcome.

Simon Guest <simon.guest@tesujimath.org>
9 Oct 2012
